---
title:  "常识问题"
date:   2015-05-15 17:04:27
categories: java
---

### Filter与Interceptor的区别

>In fact, as an interviewer, I would be expecting and hoping to here you explain exactly what the difference
>between the Servelt API and a web application framework

>Definition:
>A filter dynamically intercepts requests and responses to transform or use the information contained in the requests or responses.
>Filters typically do not themselves create responses, but instead provide universal functions that can be "attached" to any type of servlet or JSP page.

>Filters can perform many different types of functions.

>Authentication -Blocking requests based on user identity.
>Logging and auditing -Tracking users of a web application.
>Image conversion -Scaling maps, and so on.
>Data compression -Making downloads smaller.
>Localization -Targeting the request and response to a particular locale.
>Interceptors

>Interceptors are used in conjunction with Java EE managed classes to allow developers to invoke interceptor methods in conjunction
>with method invocations or life-cycle events on an associated target class. Common uses of interceptors are logging, auditing, or profiling.
>Interceptors can be defined within a target class as an interceptor method, or in an associated class called an interceptor class.
>Interceptor classes contain methods that are invoked in conjunction with the methods or life-cycle events of the target class.


### Difference between start() and run() in Java Thread

>Main difference is that when program calls start() method a new Thread is created and code inside run() method is executed in new Thread while if you call run() method >directly no new Thread is created and code inside run() will execute on current Thread.


### Callable vs Runnable interface

- 1) Runnable interface is older than Callable, there from JDK 1.0, while Callable is added on Java 5.0.
- 2) Runnable interface has run() method to define task while Callable interface uses call() method for task definition.
- 3) run() method does not return any value, it's return type is void while call method returns value. Callable interface is a generic parameterized interface and Type of value is provided, when instance of Callable implementation is created.
- 4) Another difference on run and call method is that run method can not throw checked exception, while call method can throw checked exception in Java.
